the predator is revealed a plastic
coyote without any legs it seems like an
encouraging result the prairie dogs are
certainly being vocal what's really
wonderful about this is that other
individuals are chiming in just in
response to the vocalization so they
don't even have to see the stimulus in
order to know that this is a coyote and
they start yelling every call recorded
must subsequently be analyzed by comms
we can hear the difference in the calls
between different predators but that's
not really enough for us what we really
need is some sort of analytical tools
for measuring what the frequency and
time elements in the call are and so
this software here allows us to do this
this is an alarm call elicited for a
coyote and we can hear that it has a
series of rhythmic chirps let me stop it
at this point we think that each prairie
dog has its own individual unique tonal
qualities just like humans have
different voices and different voice
prints but even though each individual
prairie dog might differ all the prairie
dogs have a common call for a coyote
even within those individual voice
differences so we think that when a
prairie dog is calling for a coyote they
probably know who the individual prairie
dog is that's calling just the same way
that we can on the telephone hear
somebody's voice and immediately
recognize it as a person that we know